As we develop more ways to embed technology into everyday materials, we begin to expand our ideas of what computing itself truly is, and the role it could or should play in our lives. I believe the technology we have access to actively shapes the choices we make, and the type of world we live in. To that end, I'm interested in designing systems that foster connection, a playful sense of wonderment, and curiosity about the world. As part of Eric Paulos' Hybrid Ecologies Lab, I design custom wearable interfaces out of magnets, microcontrollers, and imagination. We view wearables as a particularly meaningful site for inquiry. One role of fashion has been to enable forms of radical self-expression, and provide opportunities for deviance from binary gender norms. My work strives to expand this space.

By leveraging the surprisingly playful properties of magnets, we hope to expand the landscape of what clothing is capable of. I've sewn magnetic hematite beads inside custom copper coils onto a shirt for an ambiguous and surprising display. I've explored the properties of electropermanent magnets for a bistable, low-power design. I'm currently trying to harness the magnetic damping of eddy currents to create a slow and surreal wearable. I'm also getting the chance to leverage my costume design skills from my previous life as a performer as I construct these pieces.

Beyond self-expression and social connection, infinitely configurable clothing could revolutionize the exploitative and wasteful clothing industry. We imagine a world where a single garment can be programmed and reprogrammed for any occasion, and the construction and maintenance involves highly-paid skilled workers, or enthusiastic hobbyists. I envision a world where we’ve moved beyond rigid, gender- or race-based expectations about participation in fashion or technology, and where everyone can push their own self-expression as far as they want.
