### Kris Pister meeting
How to do this
Next steps
low-hanging fruit
non-vibratory, shearish force, 
no need to build from scratch
feel it out
Someone needs to take the lead.....


#### inchworm motor
original purpose? muscle of microrobots
2mm^2
wired power (50-100 volts, couple of mN of force, 3.5cm/sec) and computation
piece of silicon that moves on itself
1mm stroke, could be tapping at 10's of Hz.
Velocity may be lower w/ loading. Stepper motor, so in principle independent of load up to when it fails
small so it can walk competely on its own, extreme mass reduction
SMA draws mAmps (.1 watts), this is way lower power (100 microwatts).
drive entire linkage from high voltage solar cell

#### Fiber pusher
moves .2 mm per second
pushes 7 micron carbon diameter
motors can be built to run in both directions (but haven't done this in a long time, using spring returns now)
70 microns in theory
climbing robot
spiderweb; spider silk is a micron across
make our own spiders

#### hexapod robot
~0202 parts on a PCB Board
coud mount on the skin, shave off the stuff that pokes through except the things that poke through. Would be a couple mm.

#### Questions
What's the smallest braille actuator that people have made
What's the smallest amount people could perceive.
shear force could be "quite high"
could do 200 on a 2cm^2 die, and 30 on a wafer, that's 3,000 which costs $2000 about $1/apiece
need 2n+1 signals to control
each one is about 100 microwatts here, 50 milliwatts
How close can they be packed? packing .5 mm in both directions is doable.
How long will it last in "the atmosphere"? Not very long. One in a box still works after 15 years. Could cover it w some sort of packaging to minimize small dirt/dust objects getting into it.

#### Paper to write:
psychosocial exploration: what combo of displacement, force, tip shape, angle of appplication, freq of application, and part of the body is detectable at that point.
application stuff: some larger, easier to work with thing that approximates what the teeny ones do, how can we test/prototype with that. 3mm, 10 Hz, 4mN, etc. 5x5 array.
Braille display

#### aspirinbot: DOABLE
that can climb on fibers (hair, fishing line, 7micron carbon fiber)
force:weight 500:1000 (like ants)
photovoltaic (!!!) multi-junction solar cells
100 solar cells in series, generates 50 volts
could get very very thin (thinner than sheet of paper)
climbing robot: can lift itself w/o a battery, stiffness w/in that slot. 

#### wireless sensor node
15mmx15mm
radio circuitry
runs open WSN (open a port on a UDP host over a multi-hop mesh network)
15.4

#### next for SWARM lab
little cameras

#### Next for us
define parameters (HEL)
Pilot study w/ authors (HEL + SWARM)
IRB for user study (HEL) to prove that the sensations are feelable/define thresholds


### Gestural Textiles
find orignal tumblr post
"the body is obsolete"
sci-fi and fantasy

high-speed fashion: trends that go by every hour, 15-minute intervals, insane to try to comform to this

w/o embodied thing

doesn't like vibration motor

tracking of embodied thing (patch/swatch is used to prototype on body)
AR toolkits: put this on whatever

What's the point of this?
- expanded notions of fashion
- how would a design start to design in that landscape? might perform it, jacquard-esque clothing thing, but an interactive design tool that really lets you see yourself in situ on body, etc. We propose: bringing in a wire palette of expressive material or things that change shape, creasing/origami/inflating. A tool to let you quickly prototype what it would look like. Leverage AR. It HAS to be on-body. Story: basic AR, try out a bunch of different designs in AR world in social settings, performative, etc. Positioned as: mirror of the future. 
- more emotional or mental effect (yeahhhhhh that's useful...i can see that). clothing conjures particular emotions.
