#### NSF
personal statement: 
  - how to make it exciting

research proposal:
  - "not really state of the art robotics" (references my split as I wrote the paper: started out as robotics, was going to add stuff about path-planning, SWARM coordination, etc. but then I segued w/ no transition to just "kinetic wearables")
  - emphasize how clothing alrady does this, and what's good about that, and how my stuff is recapturing and expanding on this existing aspect of wearables (clothing).
  - throwing down ideas on paper, finess word-choice later
  - "What are you really wanting to do?"
  - "Hang on what's really going on here?"
  - "This is not the right term but...."
  - 3d printing prosthetics sentence: "this doesn't have to sound so pie in the sky..." next part:
  - "You have to pull this metaphor...the proposal was: why can't we make (it has to sound conceivable), but you can't really print batteries/sensors/etc. related to skintillates"
  - "subtle dance of vision, but a little grounded."
  - DIY and maker culture empowered greater inclusivity improved eng ed, prosthetics, and sparked entire new industries, why can't we do the same thing for wearables/clothing/gestural textiles?/some term. Ok that's a reasonable approach. DF is a metaphor to approach this.
  - Why would anyone care about these weird textiles
  - "beyond 3d printed hand, everybody has some way they'd like to augment their lives. not black and white about having disability or not. promote health/healing, long-term. Can add performative/playful/personalized, etc."
  - it's not that weird to have tech in your clothing but none of it is that expressive. not just pumping data to smartphone
  - 4: wearables are bigger, but they're flat/non-expressive and only limited body placement; trend w/ more sensors appropriately on the body + comfort; def signs of promoting health/well-being (statistics), mostly positioned as data-loggers for nightmare rectangles; culture of making and prototyping that doesn't engage with this materiality. when you look at that, what could happen. Do the thing that intersects these. not only expressive and personal and well-being (describe what that even is).
  - existing vocabulary of movement w/ clothing
  - what am *I* going to do about it (short, only 2 pages). 1. deal w/ static screen-based thing (more kinetic action w/ clothing, ref tesselation work, etc.) 2. report early findings so it sounds like you know what you're talking about, threads and woven fabric can be integrated w/ magnetic and ferrous materials to (can mention jacquard as controllable fabric), can use terminology like bunched/twisted. Can make an arg about combo of electrical/mechanical props that can achieve limited kinetic properties of clothing far beyond what we have now. clothing is not just hte material (zippers, buttons, pins, epaulets, etc) as potential sites for (again static) but what if they're invited to become.....changing styles, move sensors, look at MIT video, dynamic clothing weather-adaptive, contextual clothing, tactile sensations (from Sarah), 
  - bring my background into it somehow.
  - put some practical things, one of the more exciting concepts is that your clothing becomes an extension of yourself, becomes a co-performer with you.
  - not: new version of hamilton w/ interactive clothing.
  - advantages but one that's really not looked at already is performative (define performance: the fact that all the world's a stage) (we choose our identities w/ our clothing choices). (things that are performative about a mundane hoodie).
  - wouldn't put this in: it's almost...it can provide more functionality w/ how we are walking/biking more: connects w/ the landscape. 
  - I see what you'd really build and how you'd analyze it. Oh they want to look at magnetics, some kind of new form of kinematic/robotic approach to clothing, motivated w/ vocabulary of stuff I haven't thought about, something about: I propose to design early prototypes of these that can be worn in 3 initial specific contexts (healing from injury/monitoring prognosis, athletic event, student/more playful/commuter)

- need 2-3 sentences of actual plan. I want to bring in 3 different age groups to understand their concepts of prototypes/clothing, wouldn't use term: cultural probe because it's too specific jargony. Prototypes instead, early versions of prototypes to analyze limited-functionality prototypes to study social concepts of privacy/programmability/ 
- DEF include programmability somehow (3-year thing) how would someone program it. Tech buzzword (AR)add that back in.
- design language of what it does, expand landscape of authorship, benefit people not just teenagers that look cool, information about fidgeting, something for elderly, balance, etc. something in your shoe for feedback about calibrating standing balance (see how they talked about this). Where on the body? torso/legs/etc, define this. NEed some new interactive language, new tech stuff (new communication protocols, etc).

- specifically call out performers/puppeteers? (this may not fit in the proposal, but also **I** need to think about this more).

- open invitation to personalize if you want to, to empower people. avoid "hobbyists" too specific: everything from the teenager that wants that hip new look to the active parent that does blahblahblah and the retired such and such (broad spectrum of society), they might all want to participat in ways to design their clothing. Not all ~FASHION~ designers, but...kind of the way we were talking about clothing before: API for the jacket, how do you configure it? You buy it because you like those APIs. bunching that gets 

- special events: fancy opening, breaking an ankle (wearables)
- smart bandages that are skin-wound-based/heat from healing/infection tracking. During recovery, while training (tennis mode, and now it's measuring something and giving different feedback about progress/tracking/adv of technology). PT 

- gottta put more thing in here about how iviting that participation (talk about tech side, build programming environment but in light-weight way), very STEM-related thing, technology's not just sitting at a breadboard, even young kids can be introduced to programming metaphors on a playground, education,

- emphasize education, bringing people into STEM
- whole thing about emergence of new industries
- fashion may need to be lady-specific





