### Agenda

#### NSF
- !!!!!!
- probably starting it this fall.
- check on little bonus travel things.

**Notes from convo w/ Michael:**

near future: 
1) accept offer 
2) set status 
3) enroll in fall semester.
4) sign up for direct deposit. (same as w/ ARCS so I'm all set up here).

ARCS -  
- non-deferrable fellowship.
- Since I'm at the end of my 2nd year, the timing works out. So that's the end of my graduate division support years. That means if I choose to I can be under NSF fellowship during the upcoming year. I do have a choice: prob makes sense to be on NSF. Otherwise I can use my "departmental funding" of ARCS (can come in form of graduate appointments, departmentally restricted awards or block grants, can come from PI grants, teaching). Most likely, since I'm in CS, I can work w/ Suzanne Kauer to see what the department normally offers to new NSF fellows. Might have a plan to supplement. 

When it starts fall semester, since I'll be on tenure I'll get an info packet that has info about taxes.

GSAO may have more knowledge about funding situations (Suzanne Kauer). 
But if there's anything specific regarding ARCS or NSF, and Suzanne isn't available, Michael can answer things.

#### 160 this summer / GSI
- should not do
- nice to work w/ another faculty member.
- maybe: Critical Making in Spring, so then how does that work w/ NSF?
- or: don't GSI next year, focus on research and classes.
- don't want to do all teaching requirements last semester.

#### Student Review
- Mentioned slipping meetings.

#### Summer
- How much do I have left from ARCS for summer.
- CS260B. 
- CHI: touch base w/ researchers I might want to work w/ next summer.

#### Outdoors
- caveats: needs to have enough novelty.
- make sure it's ME leading something.
