### Agenda
- Passive On-Body Wearable Computers.
  - Meeting scheduled.
  - What's the value beyond "AlterWear next step"?


### Eric thoughts
- Directionality?
- What's cool is the no contact.
- Human body testing.
- Hertzian space. (like the SF MoMa project).
- Hertzian fashion.
- Can also be attached to objects. Obj w/ 
- Find out about antenna/power source. "Worth thinking about."
- Wearable thing: modifications on AlterWear. Extend to objects...they have personalities/they track something. Can tell weird histories. 
- Dedicated time and space for biometrics (meditation vs fitbit). Track you in the library. Augmented bookmark: powered from time to time in the room, can query when last time it left that zone, light sensor sees light. Powered thing under a chair. 
- A bag that talks to its contents.
- That story ^ has been done, Eric will check.
- How tunable is the range? Directionality.

- Molly todo: send a list of question before meeting.
- Key: no power.

- Privacy-preserved thing...
- When was I last near Molly: we'd both need to share information.
- What's different from a BT thing that's already built into a phone.
- 


### Notes

Stage-play perf.
  - Location-based ideas:
  - Tracking audience: audience moving in/out of regions trigger actions.
    - num of people in an area, num people moving through an area, rate of change, num of people returning,
    - Slightly less obvious: Can we use this to recreate how someone makes a decision? "Returning to change your mind" or to reward "getting more info". **Trajectory** thinking, w/ regard to life-time growth/learning, recreated in stage experience.
    - Outside of perf now: Hypercustomize information sharing: something knows when you have returned, and how long ago you returned, and what you learned.
  - Displaying side
    - Viz of "where you've been" in the show, ability to do speed-run, change the order, personalize an experience and have it visualized.
  - Tracking performers
    - Performers can automatically trigger sound cues, or lighting cues by moving into a zone.
    - A performer knows their heart rate will trigger a drum sound in the music, but only if they're in a certain part of the room - they can consciously choose to go there.
    - The stage as an interactive entity.
    - Location as material on the stage.
    - Not sure this would look any different from the audience's point of view.
  - Tracking audience: audience in different regions of the theatre.
    - Would be cool if this could change some part of the show they experienced: AR goggles maybe.
  - Sensor-reading-based ideas:
    - Spatialized rituals - meditation spot. A new take on "biometric tracking" - only happens with a conscious choice to enter a particular area.
    - CogSci stuff re: location-based thought/reasoning?
    
Transition to high-level framings.
  - Location-based biometrics.
  - Context-aware, object w/ no battery. Smart paper stuff.
  - Objected-focused stories. Keys adjacent to.....whatever.
  - Pets.
  - Dynamic, location-aware wearable displays. eq. to Snapchat. 
  - Finer-grained tracking
  
  
