---
title: Crescent Cookies
layout: recipe
description: Delicious buttery, nutty cookies. A family heirloom recipe, these were my favourite cookies baked at Christmas-time by my great-aunts Irene and Lillian. 
link: http://webjeda.com/thunder/
---

This is a crescent cookie recipe

The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful. The contents are very long and wonderful.