#### Research vs Products
Both papers position themselves as new technology meant to support ubiquitous computing: one based in the home, Hydrosense, and one for a wearable activity monitory. Perhaps I'm biased, having worked in industry for 2 years, but the MSP in particular seems much more useful for research approaches. My cynicism rears its head, and I find it hard to imagine any product group doing so much user-testing that they'd leverage a tool like the MSP: my sense is that many products are frequently conceptualized by an engineer or a businessperson, and then user testing is done at the very end if at all. Yet the authors argue that the MSP is built to "support context-aware ubiquitous computing applications", but I think the kind of folks likely to value and use a tool like that are researchers, not entrepreneurs. Personally, I'm much more interested in the types of detailed and focused questions that academic researchers tend to get to pursue, so both projects seem like powerful and useful tools!

#### Format
I certainly resonated more with the familiar format of the Hydrosense research paper. The MSP paper seems almost like an article, documenting the process at a higher level. I thought the format of the Hydrosense paper painted a more clear picture of the advantages, limitations, and motivations behind their work than the MSP. I briefly checked through papers who cited Hydrosense to see what had become of it after that. It was hard to tell, and this made me want a "tiered citation" system where papers that cited it once in Related Work were noted differently than those who implemented the technology and perhaps took it a step further. Or were there areny products that tried to use this in some way? Even if they failed, seeing how this might have had an impact on the real world would have been very interesting.

#### How to idea
Fogerty, the first author on one of the other water-sensing papers cited throughout Hydrosense, was also an author on this paper. The knowledge needed to understand plumbing seems incredibly in-depth - did one of the authors have some experience with this? Were they simply incredibly dedicated to developing a tool that would enable house-based infrastructure research? I'm fascinated by how this notion came about, and would love a kind of historical account of all of these papers that we've read.
