PSA: Sensitive, "reactive" skin? Visit an allergist!

My entire life I've had sensitive skin. Since I was a kid, I'd break out in hives all over my body several times a year. It happened so often that it became completely normal to me, and I just accepted it. I also learned to be very careful about what I'd put on my face since I'd randomly have a really strong negative reaction. Sometimes this meant acne and breakouts (the fastest was a massive pimple exactly where I'd patch-tested a product a mere 6 hours later), and sometimes this meant [swelling, redness, itching, flaking, peeling nightmare skin](https://photos.app.goo.gl/heh6D9SsfmaxibfT7). 

All the pictures of my face in that album are from one horrible week in 2016 where my face absolutely exploded. Why? I still don't really know. I'd only been using products I was familiar with and had been using regularly for months, nothing new at all, only gentle products (Neutrogena makeup remover wipes, CeraVe moisturizer in the tub, Elta MD sunscreen). After 6 hours of trying to power through the extreme itching and pain, I ended up going to an urgent care clinic who referred for an emergency dermatologist appointment. They immediately sent me to the large hospital in the area, where I was prescribed level 10 steroids. These are very strong and must be used carefully, but they provided immediate relief. It took about a week, but finally my skin calmed down.

Fast forward to earlier this summer, when I was prescribed mupirocin for a staph infection on my ears. Applications burned and stung like the fire of a thousand bees. I immediately discontinued and told my doctor, who said she'd never heard of anyone having a bad reaction and told me to keep applying. A week later I went back for my follow-up where they realized I'm extremely allergic to mupirocin. I told the doctor these kinds of extreme reactions were pretty common for me, and she referred me to an allergist
