#### Meeting w/ Soody
New breast pump/monitoring/tracking/etc system
Our role: 
    - circuits, usability
    - "innovation"
    - lab materials/supplies/tools/machines/etc.
Audience-specific details
Start-up (IP protection)

### TODO
#### Soody
  - Shop around to undergrads
  - We're not equipped to support circuit design
  - Foundry is currently taking groups. Someone has to be a Berkeley person.

#### NSF
- TODO: Contact Susie Armstrong
- Eric feedback on writing so far
  - Seems overly informal/boring.
  - Things I talk about are exciting.
  - This person is full of energy/ideas/ look at how many creative things they've done.
  - Avoid passive wordings (look through it). Puppeteering is insane, right now intro to it is like a throwaway.
  - "I draw deeply from" just...make it more exciting.
  - My stuff is not generic: make sure it stands out, performance, clowning, so many different communities.
  - Intro Medical Clown project better in Research statement (comes out of nowhere: can't assume they read it in the order I'm writing it). 
  - The term "clown" needs more intro...people have a hard time parsing that. Lots of cultural baggage. Can ditch it, or attach it to "history of insight into performance, the body, interactivity, this draws on the history of vaudeville, etc., clowns come out of part of this. Pull more into history of performance/context aligned w/ something that has better implications." perform/act/draw out emotions. Tech needs that kind of insight.
  - Intro wearable technology, back up even more. Look at how Christie talks about wearable stuff.
  - Think of it as rethinking of a new computational platform. Give the experience of "oh yeah I haven't thought of it that way". and this is going to require us to have a new way to approach this, or a new background, or a new perspective. The person who's going to read this is possibly an engineer - make sure it is convincing to them. Don't undersell as "not computer science", play that card first. Then expose the superpowers. 
  - wearables are a huge opportunity for health/fitness, provide new way to collect info to collect our lives/etc. But they lack a conversation with a performative/fashion, visually public. Insight of how to approach that draws more from performance, etc. 
  - Need more explication of "what's the state of things now". Need to remind people / set the context. There are more weraables, becoming part of our culture, lots of emergence of ubiquity/applications. Convince people there are going to be more. They've been instrumental of: people w/ disabilities, fitness, OH wow cool things are happening w/ wearables, but the way we approach them is still focused on functionalities that are on a phone are just mapped, don't address soft materials, really focused on visual, screen-based interactions, but we know they'll be part of cloting/skin (jacquard, skintillates), new degree of intimacy/personalizaiton + public/performative. Claim: adoption is going to be instrumental on both of those. I have insights here because of my weird background.
  - Don't need to call out Google Glass specifically. Could rub someone the wrong way.
  - People want a bold story but they need to see a connection to the current state. Ex: draw connection from self-driving cars to how parking lots will be turned back into parks.
  - Gender norms can go at the end. Sell it as: gonna be more werabel stuff, it's doing this now, why isn't it doing x, here's my view of what it's going to do (very straight-laced: deform, new programming, education, participatory, etc), then near the end b/c of broader participation and co-authorship it will invite wearables to not conform to existing social/marketing norms offers a chance to reflect a lot more personalization and celebrate different bodytypes, orientations, etc. 
  - Is this too political? Could tone it back a bit, but tell the same story. People are more receptive to things that are more pesronally designed and will express things they have personally designed. One-size-fits-all is not enough anymore, bespoke, open source clothing, etc. Can allude to this early on. Emerging products that are interesting new werables, that follow a prescribed metaphor of usage and interaction in order to turn a profit. What would you do if you didn't have to do that.
  - More technical dive at some point. Can add into magnetic thing, or... (ex: for jacquard would talk about MEMS-related heating selective control mechanisms). Make sure it's clear where the computational element comes in. Bi-stable, electropermanent, reprogrammable, etc. Don't stay too high level, make sure to ground in technical details. Similar electromagnetic properties can be used to create other artifacts.
  - Intellectual Merit: not so much about you, and what you've done. It's about the project. Ex: skintillates, we will take techniques from MEMS electronics, push the frontier about what can be adapted into the everyday practice. Me: it doesn't have to all be all technical, like EE, could be social: reframing what the concept of wearables/techniques for borrowing and reappropriating electrical and electromechanical systems. Oh you're taking some technical or sociological phenomenon,...if you publish this work what fields would be advanced. Introducing new metaphors, argument for combining disciplines (might end up at end game, years out as a proposed framework for how to select advanced manufacturing material properties into creative fabrics or something). Ex Joy Kim: using machine learning/vision techniques, AR as wearable prototyping tool (seems not gimmicky), could especially do remote collaborations.
  - IM: importing other fields. My thoughts on connections to theatre. 
  - IM: normally "this will improve two-fold algorithmic response time of x and y and create smaller processor". By bringing in different disciplines, enabling greater collaboration between different fields will bring both forward. The whole story of how do you design things that combine function/fashion. 
  - IM for citizen science: new sensing in devices, new form factors, studies of how people contribute/share. 
  - Part of the story is this whole material-aware thing. 
  - argued there is new interaction paradigm around microvolunteerism. When you constrain people to itneract and contribute on very small timescales. Social participation is somehow different and there's a reason why you have to design a particular kind of framework to support that. How would people continue to engage/participate.
  - super safe bets are not as exciting. theoretically perfect thing...but boring.
  - needs to have technical rigor. Need people to realize people have technical sophistication, not funky art project. Pepper that knowledge throughout to spice it up w/ intellectuality. Exploit parallelism and light-weight networking protocols. Make a mention to issues that you know people will question (power: exploit harvesting technology, printable flexible battery substrates, etc.)
  - Medical Clown + wearables is confusing. Get my story straight. MCP can be background? Research more focused on wearables. Could be applied to domain of out-patient interactive medical patient devices. More descriptives terms.
  - IM: because one of your stories is about dynamic clothing, it means there are algorithmic ways to reprogram sensors, move things around, everything that fits into SWARM robotics. 
  - IM: very different programming metaphor. How do you program kinetic/gestural textiles. May be something around a new programming models. Still need some adaptive way of handling disparate types of wearable materials/devices. Some are always on, intermittent, only w/ certain gesture, adoption, new programming models, power activity constraints, communication paradigms.
  - IM: Kris Pister: standard 802.15XXX wifi for this, possibly: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6488838 tell the story even if I don't *do* this right now. Check out how people do the SWARM robots. 
  
  
#### AlterWear 2.0


#### Class projects


#### Research
Personal area network ideas?
communicate through the body or around the body.
ad-hoc network, light-weight communication protocol.
What is the right wireless architecture. Don't want standard TCP/IP all point-to-point. Do you want acks or more of a UDP. 

AR:
can't always build everything
related to existing processes in drapery, etc.

