### ARCS speech
Don't need to stay on one project
Wearables, hair, skin stuff, etc. all part of the same big picture.
What I'm trying to do: future

### Research
Explore magnets more
Bistable 
Paint texture

Design what you would do
Start wearing motors and lights to experience it in everyday to see what is that space of itneractions. Right now "I don't want data" on my clothes - what do you actually want? Why would we want clothing to move? 
Art piece: Ballerina dresses made out of speakers, carry a rake and the speakers amplify the sound of the speakers. Cesar likes "amplifying". Breathe into a little sensor and it triggers a wall of 30 fans. Scale in puppeteering/animation. 
Silk is very soft, wool is "anti-hugging"

Certain types of data could be interesting. How often do you wear things, narrative stories from clothing (these jeans smell I don't want to be near them).

Smear information onto clothing.
Lining Yao PNEui
Chinese sleeve dance.

AR - maybe doesn't add anything: real life is pretty good.
magbase - magnetic shunt (mechanical movement that locks a magnet into place). Usually support things or measure things. Mitchell has some next door.

Dress going against the wind.

Cultural identity built into magnetic interfaces - based on your location, type of materials you wear, etc. it creates a specific form for you. What fashion designers would use this ability to reprogram clothes. 30-day service that yellow cuffs are out, red is in. Subscribe to the Katy Perry feed. 

Could tune into an open-source scanner.

Little burrs that get suck on your clothes when you hike. Parasites that learn new habits, personal nanocloud, SWARMLab vision of personal robot cloud fends off cyberwarfare, 

Specific to clothing areas, button or fastener, not necessarily general.

Snailtrail **

eink 

make a lump, tiny twists 
pull at one point, that mechanically latches a bunch of bumps.
natural clothing gestures
swiping 

patina tracker - work, doign patina on leather, tatooo system to leave markings on the leather, activity tracker.
knots in many cultures.

Uda Pan - large-scale pneumatics, warp string that causes big movement, using that to mechanically make knots, 

