#### Fellowships

- NSF: Can I send Eric a draft next week, and another just before Oct 19?
  - Send Eric a draft by early next week.
- Should I apply to Google? NO
    - Deadline Mon, Oct 9th
    - Research / dissertation proposal (recommended length 4-5 pages, no longer than 8)
    - 2-3 letters of recommendation from those familiar with your work (at least one coming from the thesis advisor) in PDF format.
- Rec letters?
    - Susie Armstrong. Senior VP of Eng at Qualcomm, but she said "on her own did these ind leadership things" good for NSF. Be sure to give her more context: (fellowship thing, not "communicates well w/ others" looking for: excellence, really creative, self-motivated, own initiative, passionate about having real impact, dedicated focused, took idea, bring team together and bring it to reality. Tune it towards creativity, technical excellence, etc. Working w/ Dragonboard (highlight this), trying to make Dragonboard more accessible to FIRST Robotics - greater adoption/participation - mention this even if Susie doesn't have first-hand experience).
    - TODO: Look up NSF submission instructions.
    - TODO: Reach out to Susie / Katie Baxter-Evans for her contact.
    - Gail for second rec letter
      - Contact her w/ draft of research topic after Eric's feedback. 
    - Eric has to focus more on technical stuff (he may need more proof of that....)
- Eric send me text from his NSF proposal re: wearables?
- TODO: Figure out how NSF applications work (talk to Rita)
- TODO: Doublecheck page requirements.
- TODO: cannibalize the text Eric sent me.
- "If this works out perfectly, will you be super jazzed about it? Would you tell people about it" <-- a way to think about how you want people to talk/feel about your work after they read your application.

#### Research
- New deadlines = awesome

##### AlterWear: 
  - Long-term user study? At least a week, to really show the lack of battery...what do we actually get out of this?
  - Complete, robust prototypes?
  - Either embrace "window" or use flexible e-ink (prob both: even flexible is shiny)
      - [From Ali Express](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1-43inch-flexible-wristband-e-ink-e-paper-display-screen/32810164601.html?src=google&albslr=200189406&isdl=y&aff_short_key=UneMJZVf&source=%7Bifdyn:dyn%7D%7Bifpla:pla%7D%7Bifdbm:DBM&albch=DID%7D&src=google&albch=shopping&acnt=708-803-3821&isdl=y&aff_short_key=UneMJZVf&albcp=653153425&albag=33189090135&slnk=&trgt=75384829977&plac=&crea=en32810164601&netw=g&device=c&mtctp=&gclid=CjwKCAjwu7LOBRBZEiwAQtfbGG09wbB8Z4G31SpSBkr-mAnDVimMU7eEH2U8kmGy2Sjp_S9rgxNJsRoCm0kQAvD_BwE)
      - [Water bottle idea, long flexible bar-chart](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/0-9-inch-Flexible-Bending-Black-White-10-Segment-LCD-Display-Screen-Without-Controller/32653237676.html?spm=2114.10010108.1000014.8.6f133121zKPfTk&traffic_analysisId=recommend_3035_null_null_null&scm=1007.13338.80878.000000000000000&pvid=dd7f4052-5110-441c-9d29-43adc98d1701&tpp=1)
      - [More](http://www2.eink.com/flexible.html)
  - Recruit graphic designers, or anyone who designs pins
  - It doesn't change the "look" of clothing enough to really qualify as changing fashion. Embrace this.
      - Update a message on a lunchbox a kid takes to school.
      - Update a message on the door before you leave for the day - reminders.
      - Update the message on the door AS you leave...
      - A little sign on your backpack: "pinned tweet" style (who wants this?)
      - Phone case animation (what's the power draw?)
  - What are we investigating? Changed relationship to technology? Flexible fashion? (Don't think change is enough to support this).

  - Eric feedback:
    - magical pocket, add polka dots on collar / trim. 
    - thematically: clothing that changes (visually, alterwear) clothing as vocabulary: new media
    - even if it gets in, 
    - get other people's reactions, public/performative --> good fit for DIS, possibly UBIComp. 
    - dynamic clothing at large: how do people actually live with this?
    - get a group of friends (what would actually happen, though...)
    - workshop where people build their own.
    - Can we build working versions of this stuff.
    - way to prototype for future of programmable fabric.

##### Gestural Textiles
  - oh god
  - literally anything will be good.
  - 
  - Eric
    - Magnets still underexplored
    - Flip dot for sure
    - Bunch or un-bunch ("but not in a goofy way")
    - single fold thing...fold detector...input
    - roving around (have to not step on Rovables)
    - three examplers, even if it's more about exploring the impact if clothing moves. But need 3 that are kinda cool not just random servos. Big vision of stuff...
    - ultimately how does everything interact w/ all the rest of your clothing. Interoperability.
    - how would you program apps when stuff is spread out on your body.
    - microcosm of IoT.
    - how do you know when something needs NFC proximity, or is power hungry...how do you gracefully degrade (not wearing one, it's out of batteries, etc.) 
    - need a story in a year or two about how you program them. 
 
#### Classes
  - 

#### GSI
- Emailed Bjorn, pass on info back to Bjorn (Christie should prob do this)
- Critical Making!!!!! 
  - 20 hour GSI position
  - New Media DE (which I am)
  - I've taken it.
  - Talk to Adam about it. 
  - MW 10-12noon in Jacobs
  - Used to let in ~5 MechEng masters students. 







