### Ubiquitous Computing

#### Yesterday's Tomorrows: Notes on Ubiquitous Computing's Dominant Vision 
Bell, G. and Dourish, P. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, 11(2), 2007. 133-143

The authors (a computer scientist doing work at the intersection of social science and computing, the other a cultural anthropologist whose work focuses on information technology) start by briefly describing Mark Weiser's foundational piece from 1991, and especially remarking on how the field of ubiquitous computing seems to be markeldy different from other branches of computer science. The authors postulate that this difference is due in large part to the enormous influence Weiser's paper had, not only conceptually but in structure and form of research. They describe Weiser's work as building prototypes for the purpose of anticipating and building for future needs.

```
First, how should we understand the relationship between ubiquitous computing’s envisioned future and our everyday present? 

Secondly, what influence does this have on contemporary ubiquitous computing research? 

And finally, what motivates and explains the remarkable persistence and centrality of Weiser’s vision?
```

```
the vision of the future originally envisioned by Weiser,
and still motivating much research in ubiquitous computing,
is one that is firmly entrenched in its own particular
moments, locations and cultural contexts, a
vision as much of the past as of the future.
```

Stats from Singapore suspicious? Due to governmental control of news?

```
pore also has
other sorts of ubiquitous technologies, including the
world’s first electronic road payment system, a blanket
i-CCTV coverage network, a computer-driven mass
transit system, and an enviable smart-postal network
```

A lot of ways to track citizens. Combined w/ plainclothes policemen everywhere and strict punishments for those breaking the law...

A major critique I have of Weiser is his utopic vision. These authors so far seem to share the same optimism. No they talk about it!
``` raised questions
about content, surveillance and control ``` Ok they mentioned it but otherwise focused on the collective language.

Talk about how many texts doesn't seem unusual compared to how many I send. How much were texts in 2005 when this was published?
Singapore transit system is super good, but the rason for that is super gov control.

Star's focus on the different experiences of/with infrastructure. A plumber will see the system not as ubiquitous equivalent infrastructure that always works, but a "site of work" and unique and variable.

```
Infrastructures must
be actively maintained, and relationships to them must
be continually negotiated.
```
Still haven't talked about the 3rd-world undervalued labor that goes into producing the technology and how Weiser's vision is unsustainable and cruel.
