#### Tangible bits: towards seamless interfaces between people, bits and atoms. 
Hiroshi Ishii and Brygg Ullmer. 1997. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human factors in computing systems (CHI '97). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 234-241. DOI=http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/258549.258715

#### bioLogic: Natto Cells as Nanoactuators for Shape Changing Interfaces.
Lining Yao, Jifei Ou, Chin-Yi Cheng, Helene Steiner, Wen Wang, Guanyun Wang, and Hiroshi Ishii. 2015. In Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '15). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1-10. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1145/2702123.2702611 

Both of these papers come out of Hiroshi Ishii's lab. Some of the weirdest, most inspirational, future-facing and most imaginative work comes out of his lab (and the Media Lab in general). I appreciate how much they're willing to push boundaries, and especially impressed at how they're able to implement their strange ideas even with the technologies we currently have. But....I have very mixed feelings about the Media Lab's work. On the one hand, they have gorgeous figures, photographs, and prototypes; their videos are clear and beautiful; they subject their prototypes to a wide variety of measurements and instrumentations, which please both the mind and the eye. This seems to appeal to my lizard brain and I find myself breathlessly replaying their gorgeously produced videos. But after more reflection, it often feels like mostly marketing fluff. Academic, rigorous marketing fluff, but fluff nonetheless.  In particular, I feel Bell and Dourish's critique of ignoring messiness particularly applies here. In what world would I want to wear a bodysuit that moves a miniscule amount, and is probably hard to wash? It's like they combined all the worst parts of non-electronic actuation with the worst parts of electronic actuation...

...Yet, at the same time, I actually use the Tangible Bits paper to push back on Bell and Dourish: Ishii's vision paper is one of the wildest and most fascinating works I've ever read, and I love the extent to which they've even been able to implement ANY of it in the real world. I've seen Hiroshi Ishii talk, and his enthusiasm and excitement is contagious. Why shouldn't we dream big and reach for these weird, natto-actuated stars?

The next paper related to bioLogic is one where the actuation is actually built into food. The odd thing about that project is that the exciting thing about food moving would be seeing or feeling it move, yet in the recipes they shared, most of the actuation happened in the kitchen during the cooking process. Eric suggested food that would start to actuate when inside your mouth instead: I feel that oftentimes the Media Lab is focused on spectacular, eye-catching technologies that don't center the human experience.

For the Tangible Bits paper, I love how they encapsulated their vision in a simple metaphor: that of optics. It makes it easy to reason about their wacky vision. I wish they'd explore some Design Fiction ideas to further explore how culture might look if this type of interface was actually implemented eveywhere: thinking about how cultural values would shift after living in a world that was as tangible as Ishii et al. imagine it seems like a fruitful direction! And I suppose I think that's what's missing from the bioLogic paper as well...I don't see much of an exploration about WHY we should be focusing our designerly energies in these directions. What would the world gain if this vision actually came about? In what was would we benefit, or how would humanity progress? Those are questions I don't feel are addressed.
