1. INSPIRATIONAL: Altruistic Technologies
    1. Core Contribution: Altruistic acts are highly valued, yet discussing or sharing your own altruism is often considered shameful. For instance, to share how much you contribute to charities would seem gauche and a social faux pas. However, people’s actions are influenced by the visible social actions of those around them[i]. The stigma attached with publicizing charitable acts may actually prevent more people from engaging in philanthropic behavior. We propose a triptych of technological solutions to this challenge. 1. Examples of “pay-it-forward” streaks frequently capture our collective imagination. For instance, customers at a coffee shop may pay for the next customer behind them, who are then invited to continue the streak for the person next in line, sometimes allowing strangers to pay for each others’ drinks all day. Could there be a way to enable this kind of positive feedback loop in an online purchasing environment? 2. We also propose an anonymous, moderated database where people can document their altruistic acts. The interface would be map-based, so participants could be inspired to act locally by other good actors in their community. The anonymity should prevent the social stigma while still encouraging people to contribute to their communities. 3. Rather than a completely anonymous application, we propose to subvert this stigma by creating an application that allows people to check-in while participating in altruistic events. When people nearby check in, their friends can receive a notification that an event is occurring, which would hopefully encourage attendance of others. 
    2. Method: 1. Create a Chrome widget that allows purchasers to donate to the charity of another person on smile.amazon.com. The notification also includes anonymized information about how many other people have continued the chain of “paying it forward”, further reinforcing the positive social effects. 2. Develop a map-based, moderated, anonymous database to document and publicize acts of philanthropy that would influence others to take positive action in their community. 3. This would also be done using a map-based, moderated database. However, it would include the ability to create networks of friends, allowing people to be notified when nearby friends are checking in at altruistic events.
    3. Relevant Literature: 
        1. [DESCRIPTIVE SOCIAL NORMS AS UNDERAPPRECIATED SOURCES OF SOCIAL CONTROL](http://www.paulos.net/teaching/2009/AE/readings/protected/energy_motivation.pdf)
    4. Feedback: Idea 1 = [4] This idea is nice because much of are automated technologies have removed this altruistic exposure.  I'll give you a simple personal example.  When you used to drive across the Bay Bridge and have to pay the toll in cash you would often get to the toll booth and the person would say, "hey the previous driver paid for you"  It was such a wonderful experience and yet anonymous as you would often not be able to quickly catch up to them as they vanished into the sea of cars ahead.  However Fastpass now automates are toll collection and avoid stopping and searching for exact change, etc.  But it eliminated this wonderful social experience.  The area and technique you porpoise could yield nice design insights into how to easily embed such experience back into automated designs without going back to ... well searching for loose change in your car to return to the previous example.

2. UNEXPECTED:  Subtractive Augmented Reality: real-life ad-block
    1. Core contribution: Augmented Reality interfaces are often focused on adding interactive, digital objects to our physical surroundings. Can we use digital techniques[i, ii] to instead remove or block unwanted or distracting elements of a visual scene? Prior work has explored ways to direct users’ visual attention using AR[iii], our work focuses on how to enable users to direct their own attention. A dystopian version of this future world includes having to pay to access important, entertaining, or interesting information (i.e., certain parts of a menu are obscured except for “premium” customers). Using Platform Design Fiction[v], could we begin to probe potential impacts of this type of technology?  Future work would leveraging “inpainting” techniques[i, ii] to fill holes in visual fields in real-time (for instance, to remove all tourists from a live visit to the Pyramids), which could become available as computer systems become more advanced. 
    2. Method: Develop an app using ARToolKit to block real-life advertisements as a first step towards understanding the technical challenges, apply the notion of Platform Design Fiction[v] to probe cultural ramifications of what it means to have such control over our surroundings.
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Faster Neural Net Inpainting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.09969v2.pdf) 
        2. [Scene-completion](http://graphics.cs.cmu.edu/projects/scene-completion/scene-completion.pdf)
        3. [Attention Issues in Spatial Information Systems: Directing Mobile Users' Visual Attention Using Augmented Reality](http://www.jstor.org/stable/40398875?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
        4. [App to remove tourists from photos.](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/photo-tourist-remover/id1113288376?mt=8)
        5. Wong et al., in submission, CHI 2018
     4. Feedabck Idea 2  = [5] Fantastic idea.  This is really powerful, provocative, and promotes ethical and moral debates about the appropriate usage of technologies.  Great project idea.


3. LOGICAL: Data quality for the average citizen. 
    1. Core Contribution: As wearable devices become more ubiquitous, and the Internet of Things is realized, the amount of data the average citizen will have access to will explode. Although measurement technologies will improve in reliability, it is unlikely that data quality problems will disappear on their own: for example, nodes in a sensor network could run out of battery, or accidentally be placed near a heat source or other source of interference that biases the data; visual inspection should support the discovery of what led to the misreadings. In the business-facing side, data quality problems are estimated to cost billions of dollars every year, and data cleaning is expensive in expert time and effort. 
    2. Method:We would build a visual anomaly detection system that combines automatic and interactive methods. It would generate a data quality report summarizing tabular data, and guide the analyst through productive exploration for the purpose of finding anomalies in data. The data quality report would combine (the right visualizations and statistics/indices) to give the analyst a broad sense of the usability of the given data. Our goal is that the report will help analysts know how much to trust their data, and adjust their decisions and expectations accordingly. On overview, an analyst would see scores for completeness, consistency, correctness, and regularity -- dimensions of data quality. Each score would be accompanied by charts of data quality metadata. For example, for completeness, a histogram displays how frequently values are missing for every column, omitting columns with no missing data; tables with many columns are partitioned into small multiples… (More detailed design to follow).
    3. Relevant Literature: 
        1. [Profiler: Integrated Statistical Analysis and Visualization for Data Quality Assessment](http://vis.stanford.edu/files/2012-Profiler-AVI.pdf)
        2. [Research directions in data wrangling: Visualizations and transformations for usable and credible data](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1473871611415994)
        3. [Towards reliable interactive data cleaning: a user survey and recommendations](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2939511)
        4. [A data quality metric (DQM): how to estimate the number of undetected errors in data sets](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3115414)
        5. [Grand challenges for HCI research (see grand challenge 12)](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2977645)
     4. Feedback Idea 3 = [3] Understanding the quality o data is a real and significant issue.  I'm not sure the proposed technique you have here makes the best sense.  It feels overly complex and broad and vague on the types of data it addresses. You have several other strong project ideas, in my opinion, to choose from.

4. The effect on civic engagement of situated augmented reality displays of personal tax contributions to public works. 
    1. Core contribution: Voting in local initiatives can actually have a more direct impact on quality of life for individuals, yet participation in local government elections is shockingly low[i]. “Paying taxes” is an abstract notion, with often negative connotations. Work on situated displays has shown advantages of an informational display being situated within a particular context and location[ii]. If we provide people with context-specific and personalized visualizations of their contribution to public works (e.g., amount of $ paid in taxes that went towards this bridge being built), how will this affect their engagement in the civic process? 
    2. Method: We plan to build an Augmented Reality app using ARToolKit, and assess the effect of the experience of using the app on civic engagement of participants.
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Voter Turnout Plummeting in Local Elections](http://www.governing.com/topics/politics/gov-voter-turnout-municipal-elections.html)
        2. [Exploring the Design Space for Energy-Harvesting Situated Displays](http://www.grosse-puppendahl.com/publications/uist2016.pdf)
        3. [Citizen Science: Enabling Participatory Urbanism.](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/7a60/9f5fce9cf6b0df91d33b8c8b80d121a2f35e.pdf)
    4. Feedback Idea 4 = [4] Clean and well-defined concept.  This could work quite well in helping people understand the flow of tax dollars.  It may also be a nice way to understand even more strongly how it connects to voting.  For example, listing the city council members that voted for various roads, parks, etc.  Could be a powerful civic tool.  I like the potential impact for this idea.


5. Tools to support the Algorithmic Justice League.
    1. Core Contribution: Human thought-processes suffer from many cognitive biases[i] have a tendency to be overconfident in the objectivity of algorithmic solutions. However, understanding how algorithms make their decisions can be difficult. If we visualize the clusters/categories an algorithm has developed, can we leverage crowdsourcing techniques to examine the bias inherent in the data? Can we otherwise affect the relationship between humans and algorithmic processes? What are bias-busting technique that could disrupt this problematic tendency? Does social psychology provide any clues for this area? https://twitter.com/nevona/status/905606361647640577 https://twitter.com/markpopham/status/905500529584992258 https://twitter.com/markpopham/status/905501905169895424 https://twitter.com/JoshCowls/status/904685805381320704 
    2. Method: The visualization system would in a sense be inverted. Rather than representing its prediction, or confidence interval, it would need to represent its uncertainty and systematic bias. 
    3. Relevant Literature: https://www.ajlunited.org/
        1. [How to Make Cognitive Illusions Disappear: Beyond “Heuristics and Biases”](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14792779143000033)
    4. Feedback Idea 5 = [4] This is exactly aligned with the effort as part of the Inclusive AI (as part of CITRIS COnnected Communities):  http://citris-uc.org/connected-communities/project/inclusive-ai-technology-policy-diverse-urban-future/ You could really make an impact here if you could help prevent concepots, ideas, and frameworks for people to understand these ethical issues with AI.  You are not going to solve this but start the conversation which is key.  Nice idea.

6. Immersive AR as a platform for calm technologies
    1. Core Contribution: AR systems provide immersive experiences for users. Hospital patients have limited control over their environment, and experience higher levels of stress which has been shown to adversely affect health outcomes. New computer graphics techniques enable real-time modeling and animation of growing plants. The increased immersive experiences available in AR systems provides an opportunity to give patients access to calm technologies.   
    2. Method: Generate an AR system that fully immerses hospital patients (who spend much of their time in bed) in a variety of calming situations that they are able to influence and generate themselves. Measure stress levels and hospital stay outcomes.
    3. Relevant Literature: 
          1. [Two Minute paper explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAsejHZC5EE)
          2. [Inner Garden: an Augmented Sandbox Designed for Self-Reflection.](https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01237378/file/inner-garden-final.pdf)
          3. [Introspectibles: Tangible Interaction to Foster Introspection](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.04581.pdf)
    4. Feedback: Idea 6 = [2] I understand where the motivation is coming from but it feels like there needs to be a pre-interview/study to understand what the concerns are for hospitalized people.   My feeling is being connected with loved ones is more important than trying to keep a virtual plant alive.
    
    
7. Persuasive Robot Therapists
    1. Core Contribution: We know from social science research that it’s possible to effect change of opinion on even hot-button topics like transgender rights[i]. It’s also been known for some time that people actually prefer virtual therapists[ii]. Researchers have examined how the influence of agentic entities is mediated by the realistic behavior of the agent[iii]. Prior studies examined 3D agents in an immersive virtual environment. Is it possible to program an automatic chat agent (Twitter bot) with the Leadership LAB conversational technique and see the same effect? In other words, if what’s important is that people assume the entity is a an avatar for a real person, how much “behavioral realism” is actually necessary? If we’re able to use Twitter bots, the ability to get people to change their minds on controversial topics may be greatly scaled up.
    2. Method: Create a Twitter bot that is trained in the Leadership LAB conversational technique. Develop a “realistic” online presence for the Twitter bot, and engage Twitter users in different kinds of issues, some controversial, others less so: undocumented immigrants, transgender rights, Star Wars vs Star Trek, etc. Analyze conversational content 3 months later to assess changes in beliefs. Note: instead of Twitter could do Reddit or another online platform.
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Durably reducing transphobia: A field experiment on door-to-door canvassing](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/352/6282/220)
        2. ELIZA—a computer program for the study of natural language communication between man and machine
        3. [Virtual Humans and Persuasion: The Effects of Agency and Behavioral Realism](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15213260701300865)
    4. Feedback: Idea 7 = [4] I've seen others work on this idea of a more personalized on-demand therapist and it is very likely coming to our devices soon.  It would be hard to do a full study in the time period for this class but you could likely assemble a real-time system.  It would also be interesting to attach it to a speech to text system so you can more naturally interact with it.  

8. Personalized/salient spatio-temporal context
    1. Core Contribution: People, places, and events exist in space and time, often inter-connected in rich ways. The current reporting practices default to absolute and “objective” conventions, such as stating the date, city and state, etc. But such a practice is impersonal. The convention of reporting space and time in absolutes may have been necessary for mass printed media, but is increasingly becoming inadequate. For example, when reading an HCI paper published in May 1999, people may miss the state of science and technology -- the context-- in which this paper was published: what came before it, and what it motivated thereafter. More personally, when the news reports an event in 2010 vs 2011, people will either think this event occurred 7 years ago, or have to think of another event that happened around the same time (Oh! That’s a month after I went to prom!) to get a good sense of temporal magnitude (the experience of how long ago something happened). Rather than relying on the reader to supply the context, and risk missing the sense of time, it’s possible to leverage social media information and online information networks (www, wikipedia) to express time or space in relevant and personally meaningful terms. 
    2. Method: A google chrome app that is added to the web browser. Upon loading the webpage, the app parses it, and searches for absolute representations of, say, time (21 August 2017). Then, it browses people’s social media, and the available social media information in the user’s Ego Net to translate the absolute representation to a personal and relative one (2 weeks after Alice adopted her puppy). If the user wants to know the exact date, they can mouse over the relative representation.
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Timing and time perception: A review of recent behavioral and neuroscience findings and theoretical directions](https://link.springer.com/article/10.3758/app.72.3.561)
        2. [How emotions colour our perception of time.](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364661307002549)
        3. [The Role of Perception of Time in Consumer Research](https://academic.oup.com/jcr/article/7/4/335/1798708/The-Role-of-Perception-of-Time-in-Consumer)
     4. Feedback: Idea 8 = [4] This feel missing from our digital tools which are always about the hear and now.  When you look at an old newspaper it has added from the time which are visual cues to the time period and context.  When we read an article online from a year ago it still has current events flashing adjacent to it.  What you propose is a nice simple but likely effective technique to place that in context.  This is very feasible and seems like it would have a nice effect.

9. Computer vision for detecting the extraordinary
    1. Core Contribution: Imagine walking into a museum and you point your cellphone at a wall in the art gallery. Nothing happens, you pan left, and a painting is highlighted. You turn to your companion and say, “my cellphone thinks this painting doesn’t belong in this gallery.” This could start an art critique based on what determination a computer made. Because computers and humans think in ways that are complementary, it would be interesting to explore whether computers could be used to notice extraordinary objects that we might otherwise miss, and an interesting application of this technology would be to a museum.
    2. Method: Computer vision is used for classifying or identifying objects in view. We can use models that perform well on data they were trained on and poorly on unseen data (based on auto-encoders) to highlight items that are anomalous. The challenge would be training a catalog of domain specific models, and making these available on mobile devices.
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Sotto Voce](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=503376.503454)
        2. [Autoencoders](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/contents/autoencoders.html)
    4. Feedback: Idea 9 = [2] I'm always dubious of computers beginning in via automated artistic interpretations.  I realize this could be part of a larger "which one doesn't belong" AR tools which is a bit more interesting but I am at least somewhat hopeful that we as people drive that discussion rather than always prompted or relying on computers to handle that task for us.

10. Overcoming algorithm aversion via descriptive social norms.
    1. Core Contribution: “Although evidence-based algorithms consistently outperform human forecasters, people often fail to use them after learning that they are imperfect, a phenomenon known as algorithm aversion” (see [i] in Relevant Literature). One solution is to allow people to modify the predictions, so they get a sense of control over the outcome, and don’t leave an important decision entirely to the machine. However, in many domains, algorithms can outperform experts, and allowing humans to manipulate the predictions hurts the predictions, on average. One solution we propose is to leverage descriptive social norms, rather than allowing the person to modify the predictions: for example, we could tell the decision maker, “These reputable people you know, and many others in your company, have trusted the algorithm’s prediction without modification and were satisfied with the results.”
    2. Method: The presentation of information about others trusting algorithmic predictions would need to be better than just plain text/a sentence. Alternative representations would need to be explored, but the core idea would be communicating to decision makers that the norm is trusting the algorithm. 
    3. Relevant Literature:
        1. [Overcoming Algorithm Aversion: People Will Use Imperfect Algorithms If They Can (Even Slightly) Modify Them](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2616787)
        2. [DESCRIPTIVE SOCIAL NORMS AS UNDERAPPRECIATED SOURCES OF SOCIAL CONTROL](http://www.paulos.net/teaching/2009/AE/readings/protected/energy_motivation.pdf)
    4. Feedback: Idea 10 = [2] I understand the idea and approach but trusting such algorithms might not be entirely based on the people using them.  Some of these algorithms are appropriate for some applications and not for others so just knowing that I have used it without modification many times doesn't mean it is right or should be equally trusted by you.
