#### Uncomfortable interactions.
Steve Benford, Chris Greenhalgh, Gabriella Giannachi, Brendan Walker, Joe Marshall, and Tom Rodden. 2012. Uncomfortable interactions. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2005-2014. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2207676.2208347

In general, I appreciate any project that moves focus from efficiency and ease of use. While those are both important considerations for a system, I deeply value work that looks beyond HOW to design something well, to asking questions of WHAT we should design or WHY. On the surface, questioning how "uncomfortable" interfaces fit into HCI research seems like an important step in that direction. However, the focus on artistic performances leaves me questioning whether this provides any useful guidelines for HCI research in particular. I like challenging art, and was particularly interested in this paper as I strive to incorporate my own background as a performer into the HCI field, but I can't help but feel this needs something more to be considered "HCI research". To me, the extended descriptions of various projects feel more like the authors are simply excited about the work, not a good enough explanation or justification for how it counts as "HCI research". Not that I'm trying to gatekeep, but...this wasn't satisfying to me, yet.

There are certainly elements of experience design that could benefit from leveraging the power of uncomfortable interactions. And as we move away from GUI's, I hope to see more. I would have enjoyed an exploration of how this could apply to GUIs, however, if only for the fun of it. This gallery of terrible ways to get users to enter their phone number is hilarious, but also helps clarify good design by exemplifying bad design: https://imgur.com/gallery/r102w Those interactions are frustrating, tedious, and exhausting, and it's interesting to consider where something that's slow and difficult to use might have a place (An important step in a medical interface, for instance, probably shouldn't be super fast, and probably shouldn't be easy to habituate to). Where else in standard interfaces might we use discomfort? A lot of the examples seemed to be "artistic" or designerly artifacts. I sometimes struggle to see the larger impact these have on systems we currently use...I am open to convincing but didn't feel convinced by this paper.

In particular, they describe the mapping of experience to the Freytag's pyramid....but I don't see how that applies to me writing in a Google doc, for instance. How am I, as a practitioner of HCI meant to apply this to my interfaces? I re-read this paper twice, looking for a helpful takeaway and...I'm coming up empty :(

#### Exertion interfaces: sports over a distance for social bonding and fun.
Florian Mueller, Stefan Agamanolis, and Rosalind Picard. 2003. Exertion interfaces: sports over a distance for social bonding and fun. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '03). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 561-568. DOI= http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/642611.642709

In the classic paper by Hollan and Stornetta, _Beyond Being There_[1], the authors suggested a whole new paradigm for interactions. Instead of simply treating physical co-location as the "gold standard" by which we should measure all other interactions, why not consider it as only one type of medium from the many available to us. In particular, they suggested that a good technology is one where people choose to use it even when they are physically present.  I wonder what system would have been designed if these researchers had their goal as not just to use the power of telecommunications technology, but actually to transcend it. Hollan and Stornetta identify a few key advantages of telecommunications: Anonymity, Automatic Archiving, and Asynchronous communication. How would those advantages change the design of Exertional Interfaces?

On the other hand, there does seem to be something odd about the way perceived social attention impacts even our subjective experiences[2]. Perhaps this work is tapping into that, with the added effect of endorphins that come after intense exercise.

I do appreciated the reasonable scope of using these games in the same way ice-breaking style games are currently used in social relationships. It does seem like this would help with team-building for remote groups, and also be a fun way for friends to continue activities together.  

I do think they "stacked the deck" in their own favor: playing this game on a keyboard is far less appealing. I also wonder if the intensity of the exercise is important to the feelings of social connection that they found: would simply running on a treadmill with someone have a similar effect? It feels like there should have been a greater elaboration on possible mechanisms of connection. I also question whether their survey got caught up in "social desireability bias". They explicitly told participants they wanted to know how much they enjoyed the game. I at first thought their metric of "continued voluntary play" was good, but things tend to be a little more complicated: happy users don't always simply spend more time, as this infographic about "user active time" clearly shows[3].

[1] [Beyond Being There](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=142769)

[2][Beyond Social Facilitation: A Review of the Far-Reaching Effects of Social Attention](http://guilfordjournals.com/doi/abs/10.1521/soco.2017.35.5.585)

[3] [User active time](https://twitter.com/williampietri/status/904362695482376193)

Website: [http://exertiongameslab.org/](Website: http://exertiongameslab.org/)
