### Sketchpad response:

The first thing that strikes me about this paper is how closely it relates to the idea of Direct Manipulation - even though Schneiderman's paper on that subject wasn't published until nearly 20 years later! Specifically, choosing a graphical representation of data that is best shared visually is a perfect example of moving away from the "conversation metaphor" and towards the "model-world" metaphor described by Hutchins, et al. in their 1985 paper. 

I'm also drawn to the extraordinarily tangible interface Sutherland describes: zooming in by turning knobs, flipping switches to change functions: the whole system sounds as complicated as a pilot's cockpit (or the modern implementation of most CAD programs #burn #shade #iwentthere). Sutherland goes on to describe in great detail how one would construct a perfect hexagon or a perfect circle, and I'm very curious about how the average person in 1964 - who had never seen a computer, much less a graphical user interface like this one - would possibly interpret this. Would the system seem useful or just silly? Would it seem overly complicated? It's a reminder for myself to keep an open mind about how useful new interfaces may appear: and especially that we may not be able to predict the effect they'll have.

I'm also fascinated by the particular level of detail in the paper. It seems clear that the audience was expected to be those who had access to and familiarity with computers and compilers. Sutherland blithely references pointers with no explanation of what those are, apparently assuming that his audience needs no explanation.

I LOVE that the system basically teaches the user about one of its limitations by using that limitation as a control signal: the user indicates that they are finished drawing by flicking the pen too quickly for the system to track. I don't think it was intentionally done this way, but it provides the user with a mental model of how the system works, by revealing what might otherwise be considered a bug! Delicious.

### Social Psychological Aspects of Computing response:

I deeply appreciated this paper as yet another stepping stone along the path towards modern-day HCI. The combination of many fields - especially those well-equipped to study humans - is an enormous part of what I love about HCI. 

One of my favourite sections in this paper is where they describe some of their findings in the study they did:
The authors list some examples of uninhibited behavior:
```
subjects swearing, individuals shouting at their
terminals, and groups refusing to make a group
decision until a group member gave in
```

This is so comical, especially when constrasted with the formal, academic style of writing. But I was later struck by how much it is basically a description of how I interact with Twitter: swearing and shouting at my smartphone. This made me question whether or not we've actually progressed in terms of the way we interact with computational devices. Specifically, the authors also point out that managers make qualitatively different decisions when using online tools. Email is ubiquitous now - what effects does this have on decision-making processes that we aren'te even aware of? Jonathan Grudin's paper on Groupware stated that about 7% of email messages spanned more than 1 management level (seems small until you realize 0% did before). How would these authors interpret current email norms/expectations/behaviors?

### As We May Think
This classic text is almost difficult to respond to, having read it so many times. What always stands out to me is the historical context in which it was written. Apparently Bush was one of the first to know that the Atom bomb was going to be dropped - in fact he was part of the group that decided to drop the bomb. This article came out after the decision was made, but before it had happened. In some ways, it almost seems like an apology: He's trying to find some way to salvage the infrastructure and intellectual prowess that was leveraged in such a destructive way, and latches onto this notion of social contributions. In that way, the paper almost feels like a tragedy to me, especially given the current political climate. His techno-optimism is both refreshing and depressing (since technology has not solved many of the problems he hoped it might).


### Other notes from the papers



Interesting:
```
People did not know exactly when
their arguments were understood or agreed to, and
consequently everyone believed they had to exert
more effort to be understood. 
```

Describing Twitter oh god:
```
 shift and uninhibited behavior, except indirectly.
Perhaps it was frustrating for people to be
discussing a problem inefficiently; they might have
become angry and, hence, more extreme in decision
making and more uninhibited.
A second explanation of our find
```

```
A final explanation for our results is that electronic
communication involves a process of depersonalization
or a redirection of attention away from
one's audience. Suppose computer-mediated communication
prevented personal feedback and individuating
information and at the same time lacked
a shared etiquette and, further, was influenced by
norms from the computer subculture. This could
have made group members more responsive to immediate
textual cues, more impulsive and assertive,
and less bound by precedents set by societal norms
of how groups should come to consensus. This
explanation fits our data. H
```
