### Source files:
[Touché: enhancing touch interaction on humans, screens, liquids, and everyday objects](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2207676.2207743)

[Low-cost multi-touch sensing through frustrated total internal reflection](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1095034.1095054)

### Accessibility
I've read the Touche paper before, and the applications enabled by such a technology are basically a dream come true for any HCI researcher: single wire, wide variety of touches sensed, and huge range of potential topologies. Sato et al. come across as thrilled and justifiably excited to share the swept frequency capacitive sensing technique with readers, based on their repeated statements that they "are not aware of any previous attempt" to apply the technique to touch interactions. As in Han's paper, the authors go into a great deal of detail about how capacitive touch sensing actually works, describing the way AC signals interact with the human body in depth. Han also spends time describing how the mechanics of frustrated total internal reflection work. Having read many papers that simply redirect the reader to a 200-page thesis rather than describe the concepts behind the technology, I deeply appreciate this move towards accessibility. 

However, I have actually tried to implement a version of Touche for a research project, and an important reason for our success was because someone else had created an open-source Arduino-based version of the system, and released it online. Indeed, as I've tried to replicate and expand on the work of many people, I have routinely found that there are never enough details to succeed as quickly and easily as I'd like (or at all!). Not only is this frustrating, but I strongly feel that this type of "halfway there" documentation actively undermines the research community. Rather than standing on the shoulders of these researchers, I find myself nipping at their heels. I yearn for the day when everyone releases their code with research-friendly licenses, provides the files needed to create the hardware (rather than stylized drawings in the paper), and even creates Instructable-like documentation to walk someone through a Hello World-type basic functionality. In that sense I always find these types of "systems" papers frustrating and incomplete. Give me an actual jumping-off point, not a cliff hanging in midair, with a beautiful lush garden visible on the other side of a chasm!

### Tangible interfaces
It's also fascinating to me how both of these interfaces enable touch interactions. While it's true that the Han examples are mostly flat pieces of glass or acrylic, the authors point out that the interface surface does not necessarily need to be planar. This stands out to me because so much of what HCI as a field does seems related to screens and Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs). Yet it seems that there is simultaneously a great deal of excitement for these types of systems that enable moving beyond screens. The Touche paper came out in 2012 - I hope that in the near future we'll see more touch-based interactions. (I suppose Disney may have installed similar systems at their theme parks).

### Context
I first read Han's paper while studying for the HCI prelim exam. It stood out amidst the vision papers, the design guidelines, and the critiques as being one of the only complete systems we saw. The reason for including this paper - this system - in particular still eludes me. In particular, the writing style doesn't seem revolutionary or particularly effective, and the technology itself isn't obviously an enormous leap up. Perhaps there is some historical context I'm lacking, in which case I hope to learn it soon!
