Thanks for your comprehensive approach and thoughtful analysis, Molly! In your transcript, it was helpful to see that you’d coded some areas for clarification, and indicated your thoughts on the effectiveness of questions as you went through the interview. You mentioned a concern about your enthusiasm while interviewing, that it might lead to bias from your interviewee. I think it’s great to be aware of this, and based on Qian’s reflection, as well as the content you uncovered through the interview, it looks like you did a great job balancing the need for neutrality with the need to maintain a warm and energetic environment. In terms of the questions you used, I was impressed to see your initial question list, because you clearly have experience developing engaging questions! (This made more sense when I read about your mention of the “user brainstorming” done in your lab, and your experience with CI-types of interviews.) One practice I encourage people to consider when preparing for an interview is to develop a number of follow-up questions beforehand. It can help us “stay ahead” of the interview. I’ll typically try to have a least 10-20 follow-up questions prepared before interviewing, deliberately phrased in neutral ways, ideally employing open and closed ethnographic questions (grand tour, compare/contrast, hypothetical interaction, etc.) Even though it may be rare to actually use most/all/any of these questions, having them “active” in my mind help me pick them up from memory when needed. It’s also been helpful to get me into the mindset for creating more questions like them on-the-fly. To your question about what to do with answers the “words and phrases” the “magic device” question, I think the answer for me ultimately depends on the goal of the interview. For example, if I’m doing a study for a product idea or an area of need, I could see those types of interview answers being useful as indicators of the values that we should be designing toward, and as evidence of what the real problems are that the interviewees experience. They hint at the user experience outcomes (and associated usability metrics) we want to worry about during the design and development process, and offer context that may help promote empathy. In your reflection about your experience as an interviewee, I appreciate that you mentioned the potential benefit of written prompts. They can do wonders at keeping a person focused, and even if/when we go off on tangents, having the prompt available makes the “getting back on track” process pretty straightforward. And if an interviewee remains off track for awhile, the prompt can help the interviewer transition back to the main goals of the interview. Again, thank you for taking such a thoughtful approach to this exercise -- it was great to read through your thoughts and insights!
