NSF - GRFP WorkshopGreen sheet - eligibility requirementsPurpose: "ensure vitality and diversity of scientific and engineering workforce"2017: 2,000 awards rewarded.For 2018, est. 1,000 awards.16% acceptance rate5% awardees Berkeley grad students.Last year:	- 1158 women	- 498 POC	- 75 disabilities	- 26 vetsTop 5 depts	- EECS	- Chem	- MCB	- Physics	- ChemE- Conceptualize application, consider academic self, consider how reviewer will understand who you are.- Think about how your goals fit w/ NSF's vision.What reviewers think about:	- What proposer wants to do	- Why they want to do it	- How they plan to do it	- How they will know if they succeed	- What benefits accrue if project succeeds.Student advice:	- Get different faculty to read/comment on essays.	- Answer key points of IM and BI	- Examples of BI on site, she chose "Social"	- Personal statement: outline trajectory as person/student/what led you here.	- Include publicationsStudent 2:	- Took a year off	- OK to propose research that you don't end up doing. (Physics -> BioE)	- Writing essays was easier if working w/ older grad student directly to bounce ideas off of.	- Research Statement: Wrote about science behind WHY you would want stable lasers.Student 3:	- Put 40-50 hours on it.	- Use bold to call out a few particular phrases. Impact, problem you're proposing to solve (one-line summary).	- Write refs in smallest possible way, half a line / ref.	- Have people outside your field read/edit.	- Read a bunch of winning ones. Find the formula. 	- Write a complete picture - proposal should be complete.	- Rec letters: diversifyDean Doyle- Reviewers look at proposal as evidence that you have research ability, can think clearly, can communiate clearly, shows your potential. Choose a topic that allows you to demonstrate that.- It's not hyperbole if it's true.- Get passion in there, reviewers look for that.- Tell them what you want to study, why it's important. Reviewers may know nothing about this topic. Tell people what's known so far, in a way that makes your reviewers feel intelligent. They'll like you and rate you higher.- Don't change your mind thru the proposal - write it down clearly and define it. Be consistent. Review what you've said you're doing, to make sure it is consistent.- "Write it like an academic" --> Don't feel you have to write like research papers are written, because they're often horrible. People who can write well feel taht when they do tech writnig they must adopt this new boring style. Don't do that, keep reviewers awake and use an active voice.- Use verbs! "Measurements will be carreid out" --> "We will measure this"- Bolding, subheadings, use structure to help people navigate. Makes a difference to the clarity of research proposal.- Keep re-reading app info. Impression of what's required may change with time.Reference letters- A variety of different people. People who write your letters should know you well. More important than status of writer.- Letter writers want you to win this. They'll put time and effort into helping you win this. - Get people engaged in your research proposal, so they can write substantively about your expertise and skills.- People who know you in different context to provide a broad spectrum so reviewers feel they know you.- Apps are reviewed at the stage at which they are applying, so apply early. 2nd years are held to a higher standard, presumably. Comparing apples with apples.- Funding could be cut more next year :(Different factors- Grades: not that important. Need good mastery of subject, but doesn't correlate.- Letter writers are scouring mind for nice things they can say. Exam answers, class behavior, etc can all contribute to painting a picture of you.- Letters: broad picture of who you are and how you're going to be able to do research. Refs particularly helpful.- Holistic- Proposal: keep reviewer awake, clear, consistent, etc.- NSF recognizes that the playing field is not equal. Unusual background, hardship, etc. Don't need to sound whiny. Matter-of-fact way, can talk about what you learned by overcoming it. People have a tendency to be humble/self-deprecating. This is not the time to be humble. Think of how someone else would describe you. (Could write a draft in the 3rd person).Group questions- Figures in proposal? Doyle: yes, do it. Flowsheet for methodology, pic of complex equipment. Not more than one. But they take up a lot of space, don't use one unless it's super worth it.- NSF folks are faculty members. Political climate shouldn't play a role............ consider staying away from hot-button terminology, but stay true to your research issues.- Industry rec letters? Manager who observed you in research work might fit, esp if you worked in industry (it would be suspicious if you don't have one). They look for academic, but one is important.- Do 3 letters.- Interdisciplinary work: Ask faculty which area to submit to. - Letters from postdoc weighed differently from PI? "One likes balance", postdoc saying you're the brightest student they've ever worked with carries less weight than prof emeritus. Diversity of opinions.- Stress what you *learned* from previous research experiences if the field isn't directly relevant. Should be in personal essay. Research proposal is 100% for what you're going to do.- To what extent are different years graded: expectations for 2nd years? Someone who has had no grad ed will demonstrate competence and mastery of material. 2nd years: that's not enough, need much more extensive understanding of literature, more sophisticated approach to research questions and design. - It's easy to forget that you kick ass, but don't forget it. Admittance here is incredibly competitive. - As 2nd year: how far back do you go? It depends. Go back "as far as you need to do to project a compelling story." In general, focus on what you've been doing in grad school, but go back and revisit. 3 good places to start story: when you got into STEM (quickly transition), when you got into research, crazy experience that leads to current place.- Focus on non-health apps for methodology you're using. For more details, check eligibility requirements, and can talk w/ Rita.Other fellowships:They have a website. Department may know more.UCLA's site has good info.__________________________________________________________________2nd Workshop